README.md, before:

# QUIZ GAME PROJECT 🃏

**INDEX**

- [QUIZ GAME PROJECT](#quiz-game-project-)
    - [Brief intro](#brief-intro-)
    - [Milestones](#milestones-)
    - [Future upgrades](#future-upgrades-)
    - [HTML notes](#html-notes-)
    - [JS notes](#javascript-notes-)
    - [CSS notes](#css-notes-)
    - [AXIOS notes](#axios-notes-)
    - [Built with (Toolset)](#built-with-toolset-)
    - [Authors](#autors-)
    - [License & copyrignt](#license--copyright-)
    - [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement-)

- [QUIZ INSIDES](#quiz-insides)
    - [Quiz description](#quiz-description-)
    - [Game rules](#game-rules-)
    - [Game views(pages)](#game-viewspages-)
    - [Fun scoring](#fun-scoring-)
    - [Play & learn!](#play--learn-)

- [CODING THE QUIZ](#coding-the-quiz-)
    - [DOM to JS](#dom-to-js-)
        - [Buttons](#buttons-)
        - [Sections](#sections-)
        - [Div's](#divs-)
    - [Variables for global scope](#variables-for-global-scope-)
    - [Functions](#functions-)
        - [Show views](#show-views-)
        - [Start game](#start-game-)
        - [Show question & answers buttons](#show-question--answers-buttons-)
        - [Select answers & show messages](#select-answers--show-messages-)
        - [Reset answers](#reset-answers-)
        - [Show results](#show-results-)
        - [Quiz Q&A report for study](#quiz-qa-report-for-study-)
        - [Save results (JSON)](#save-results-json-)
        - [Clear results (JSON)](#clear-results-json-)
    - [Add event listeners for buttons](#add-event-listeners-for-buttons-)
***

## Brief intro 📅
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>*This project it's aimed to implement promises & SPA (Single Page Application) trough a Quizz Game.*

***

> __Note__
Project managers have introduced in the briefing document some suggestions to include extra features,which have been detailed in the table below.


## Milestones 📅
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>*Main milestones to reach within the project are;*

| HTML JS CSS     | Milestone |
| :-----------:   | :---------- |
|JS               | To import data from an external API       |
|(All)            | Create the Quizz code to convert the imported data in an usable Quiz game       |
|JS               | Create counters and score for players 
|JS               | Develope a SPA model that allows users to browse the three main pages under the Quiz game| 
|JS               | Save the results using JSON                 |
|JS               | Create game controls and game interaction through buttons  |

> __Warning__
Coding priorities have been re-checked almost dayly in order to speed up project development.


## Future upgrades ✅
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Things to do
>- [x] Improve score section to show funny answers based on scoring
>- [x] Add images to the score to improve impact 
>- [X] Add graphic score in main view
>- [ ] Multiplayer option
>- [ ] On start,select difficulty level (radio buttons)
>- [ ] On start,select topic (collapsible list)
>- [ ] On start,select number of questions (radio buttons)
>- [ ] Layout color scheme change option (radio buttons)


## HTML notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>We've build up the HTML with bootstrap in mind.
It means that we've created a nested div structure that allows us to stilish each section to better define each single page view.
>With DOM access in mind to accomplish call-request functions.
>HTML structure has been kepts as simply as possible for quick and safe testing.

## JavaScript notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Script file has been linked inside the <body> section.
>We've strongly followed the best practices guidelines during the coding procedure.
>Code has been built under this order:
    - Variables declarations for:
        - Buttons
        - Sections
        - Div's 
        - Variables for global scope
    - Functions:
        - Show views
        - Start game
        - Show question & answers buttons
        - Select answers & show messages
        - Reset answers
        - Show results
        - Quiz Q&A report for study
        - Save results (JSON)
        - Clear results (JSON)
    - Add event listeners for buttons

## CSS notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>CSS file has been linked inside the <head> section.
>CSS as itself, only contains the main rule which manages the visibility of the views. Nothing else is brought from the styles.
>BOOTSTRAP bas been imported using the *CDN links method* which allowed us to easily edit the CSS code without caring about problems related to Bootstrap source files location paths in our respective computers.
>CDN Links has been placed on *<head>*and *<body>* sections of index.html page.

>There are three views within the site:
    -Home: where two cards are shown:
        - Access to Quiz 
        - Score statistics
    -Quiz: where the game canvas is showed,and game is played.
    -Score: where you get the game score

> __Warning__
To show and teach the gamers the right results and allow them to learn and improve their skills, a POPUP window is used instead of a new view. Thats why the project manages three views instead of four.

## AXIOS notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Script file has been linked inside the <body> section, precisely after the BOOTSTRAP link and before the main .js file.
>Once AXIOS has been linked, brings some sort of library which allows to manage PROMISES using the CRUD paradigm.


## Built with (TOOLSET) ⚙️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

*VISUAL STUDIO CODE*

>* [*VISUAL STUDIO CODE*](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - Code editor used (Version: 1.75.1)
>* [*BOOTSTRAP*] (https://getbootstrap.com) - CSS Framework (Version: 5.3.0) 
>* [*Live Server*](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer) -Extension that updates the choosen browser to see changes in real time.
>* [*Live Share*](Version: 1.0.5832) -Extension that allow remote team coding under the same Visual Studio project. 

## Autors ✒️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

**kbastamow** - *Concept* | *Design* | *Coding*- [kbastamow](https://github.com/kbastamow)

**Joan Baldó** - *Concept* | *Design* | *Coding*- [joanbaldo](https://github.com/joanbaldo)

## License & Copyright 🔏 
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Please feel free tu use our code if it can help you! 
>Images shown has their own rights and have been used to reinforce positively the game score results view. All of them are aimed to inspire and bring enthusiasm to all those gamers who are braves enough to face our Quiz challenge.
>Regarding JS code,please check [LICENSE.md]for details.

## Acknowledgement 🫶
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

* Sofia Pinilla as code wiser and good vibe manufacturer.
* Federico Arévalo as spiritual coacher
* The crazy guys that are on our side creating amazing stuff while giving us some hand

***

# QUIZ INSIDES🎲
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Now let's talk about the game!

## Quiz description 📄
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Our Quiz game has the following features:
    - Vast range of topics mixed in a very attractive way
    - 10 random questions per round
    - Player gets real time feedback to know if the choosen answer is correct or incorrect.
    - Final score with funny output.
    - Option of getting the righ answer to learn the questions of the quiz round just played and improve.
    -Possibility or resetting the scoring history of the player.

## Game rules 📜
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>- Each round contains 10 questions.
>- Player can only choose one of the four answers showed for the question provided.
>- Player has to complete the quiz to be able to get the score.
>- Player has,as an option, the possibility of resetting,or not, its counter history.
>- Player has unlimited choices to play Quizz. As many rounds as deserves...


## Game views(pages) 🖲️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>There are three views within the site:
    -Home: where two cards are shown:
        - Access to Quiz 
        - Score statistics
    -Quiz: where the game canvas is showed,and game is played.
    -Score: where you get the game score


## Fun scoring 🎯
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We want that you enjoy each round!
>Thant's why we've prepared some surprises after each round when the game score is shown... go and try it!

## Play & learn! 🎓
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We strongly believe that game and knoledge must cohexist, so we've setup an extra function that allows ,through the click of a button, player to know all the questions and answers showed during the game round.


***

# CODING THE QUIZ ⌨️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Warm your fingers...it's coding time!

## DOM to JS 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>As the basic task to start coding page view management and building HTML contents, we have to import the basic HTML elements.

### Buttons 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We bring from DOM all the buttons.
```json
const nextBtn = document.getElementById("nextBtn");
const restartBtn = document.getElementById("restartBtn");
const clearBtn = document.getElementById("clearBtn")
const reviewBtn =document.getElementById("reviewBtn")
```

### Sections 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We bring from DOM the main sections which contains the main views.
```json
const home = document.getElementById("home");
const quiz = document.getElementById("quiz");
const score = document.getElementById("score");
```

### Div's 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>We bring from DOM the secondary containers where we place the view elements.
```json
const question = document.getElementById("question");
const answers = document.getElementById("answers")
const msg = document.getElementById("msg")
const counterDiv = document.getElementById("counterDiv");
const sentenceDiv = document.getElementById("sentenceDiv");
const clearedMsg = document.getElementById("clearedMsg");
const questionsPopup = document.getElementById("questionsPopup");
const image = document.getElementById("image");
```

## Variables for global scope 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>The following step is to declare the global variables.
>Local variables have been declared inside their functions(local scope).
```json
let quizArray;
let qIndex = 0;
let correctAnswer = "";
let counter = 0;
```
## Functions 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>These are the functions coded in JS.

### Show views 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to show/hide the views elements.
>Original functions have been upgraded to reduce the code.
```json
function reveal(page) {
  home.classList.add("hide");
  quiz.classList.add("hide");
  score.classList.add("hide");
  page.classList.remove("hide");
}
```
### Start game 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to start the Quizz when pressing the button.
```json
async function startQuiz(e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  try {
    const res = await axios.get("https://opentdb.com/api.php?amount=10&type=multiple");
    quizArray = res.data.results;
    showQuestion(e) 
  } catch (error) {
      console.error(error) 
    }
}
```
### Show question & answers buttons 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to render the question and the answers array.
```json
function showQuestion(e) {
  console.log(counter);
  e.preventDefault();
  reveal(quiz);
  resetState();
  nextBtn.classList.remove("hide");
  nextBtn.setAttribute("disabled", "true");
  question.innerHTML = quizArray[qIndex].question;
  correctAnswer = quizArray[qIndex].correct_answer;
  const options = [...quizArray[qIndex].incorrect_answers, correctAnswer].sort();
    options.forEach((option) => {
    const button = document.createElement("button");
    button.setAttribute("class","btn btn-outline-warning border-2 rounded-0 text-dark shadow");
    button.innerHTML = option;
    if (option == correctAnswer) {
    button.classList.add("correct");
    }
    button.addEventListener("click", selectAnswer);
    answers.appendChild(button);
  });
  qIndex += 1;
}
```
### Select answers & show messages 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to render answer status: correct or incorrect.
```json
function selectAnswer(e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  nextBtn.removeAttribute("disabled");
  document.querySelectorAll("#answers button").forEach((button => button.removeEventListener("click", selectAnswer))); 
  const selectedStyle = this.getAttribute("class").replace("btn-outline-warning", "btn-warning");
  this.setAttribute("class", selectedStyle);
  if(this.classList.contains("correct")) {
   let msg = document.createElement("div");
   msg.innerHTML = `<p class="alert alert-success border-0 fw-bold">CORRECT</p>` //NEW
   answers.appendChild(msg);
     counter +=1 ;
  } else {
   let msg = document.createElement("div");
   msg.innerHTML = `<p class="alert alert-danger border-0 fw-bold"><span class="fw-bold">INCORRECT.</span> Correct answer: ${correctAnswer}</p>` //NEW
   answers.appendChild(msg);
  }

  if (quizArray.length == qIndex)  {    
   nextBtn.classList.add("hide");
   const resultBtn = document.createElement("button");
   resultBtn.setAttribute("class", "btn btn-dark shadow my-2 px-5")
   resultBtn.innerHTML = "See your score";
   resultBtn.addEventListener("click", results);
   answers.appendChild(resultBtn); 
 } 
}
```
### Reset answers 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to reset the questions canvas,cleaning it.
```json
function resetState() {
  while (answers.firstChild) {
    answers.removeChild(answers.firstChild);
  }
}
```
### Show results 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to render the score and add a funny sentence and an image.
```json
function results(e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  saveScore();  //Save in local storage
  reveal(score);
  counterDiv.innerHTML = `${counter} Points`;
  if (counter <= 3) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4b/McDonald%27s_logo.svg/220px-McDonald%27s_logo.svg.png")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `You better look for a job at McDonalds!`;
  } else if (counter > 3 && counter <= 5) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://media.istockphoto.com/id/1186712099/photo/walking-into-the-abyss-while-using-smartphone.jpg?s=170667a&w=0&k=20&c=-I2on4piBRgMXFPLHRxZKv5TLUNKT3_lyxKsYaZR9kg=")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `You're on the path to success!`;
  } else if (counter > 5 && counter <= 7) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://imageio.forbes.com/specials-images/imageserve/5bb22ae84bbe6f67d2e82e05/0x0.jpg?format=jpg&crop=1012,1013,x627,y129,safe&height=416&width=416&fit=bounds")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `You're on your way to becoming the next Bezos`;
  } else if (counter > 7 && counter <= 9) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://jingdaily.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Screen-Shot-2013-10-09-at-2.54.19-AM.jpg")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `Your insane points will bring you your dreamed yacht, supercar & private resort in Ibiza`;
  } else {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://t3.ftcdn.net/jpg/05/64/37/30/360_F_564373014_pREjFn0SL1hd1TwRAcFfiQqNvD2RmhnT.jpg")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `Will your points let you into Valhalla? Yes!`
  }
}
```
### Quiz Q&A report for study 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that shows a popup containing the 10 question with the 10 correct answers.
```json
function studyQs() {
  quizArray.forEach(item => {
    const question = document.createElement("div");
    questionsPopup.appendChild(question);
    question.innerHTML += `<p class="fw-bold mb-0">${item.question}</p>
                           <p>${item.correct_answer}</p>`
  })
}
```
### Save results (JSON) 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that sends score to Local Scorage.
```json
function saveScore() {
  const scoreArray = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem("scores")) || [];
  scoreArray.push(counter);
  localStorage.setItem("scores", JSON.stringify(scoreArray));
  average.innerHTML = `You've played ${scoreArray.length} time(s). Your average is:  ${Number(scoreArray.reduce((acc, val) => (acc + val)) / scoreArray.length).toFixed(0)}/10`;
}
```
### Clear results (JSON) 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that cleans the Local Storage.
```json
function clearStorage() {
  if (clearBtn.classList.contains("clickedOnce")){         
    localStorage.clear();
    clearBtn.classList.remove("clickedOnce");
    clearBtn.innerHTML = "Clear game history"
    clearedMsg.innerHTML = `<p class="text-danger fw-bold">Evidence destroyed</p>`
    setTimeout(()=> clearedMsg.innerHTML = "", 4000);    
  } else {        
    clearBtn.classList.add("clickedOnce");  //Adds a class to button to show it's been clicked once to get confirmation from user
    clearBtn.innerHTML = "ARE YOU SURE?";
  }
}
```
## Add event listeners for buttons 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that shows which function trigger each button.
```json
nextBtn.addEventListener("click", showQuestion);
restartBtn.addEventListener("click", restartQuiz);
quizBtn.addEventListener("click", startQuiz);   
clearBtn.addEventListener("click", clearStorage); 
reviewBtn.addEventListener("click", studyQs);
```

Commit message:

Added chart.js,Bootswatch and header anim. notes on Readme

README.md, after:

# QUIZ GAME PROJECT 🃏

**INDEX**

- [QUIZ GAME PROJECT](#quiz-game-project-)
    - [Brief intro](#brief-intro-)
    - [Milestones](#milestones-)
    - [Future upgrades](#future-upgrades-)
    - [HTML notes](#html-notes-)
    - [JS notes](#javascript-notes-)
    - [CSS notes](#css-notes-)
    - [AXIOS notes](#axios-notes-)
    - [Built with (Toolset)](#built-with-toolset-)
    - [Authors](#autors-)
    - [License & copyrignt](#license--copyright-)
    - [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement-)

- [QUIZ INSIDES](#quiz-insides)
    - [Quiz description](#quiz-description-)
    - [Game rules](#game-rules-)
    - [Game views(pages)](#game-viewspages-)
    - [Fun scoring](#fun-scoring-)
    - [Play & learn!](#play--learn-)

- [CODING THE QUIZ](#coding-the-quiz-)
    - [DOM to JS](#dom-to-js-)
        - [Buttons](#buttons-)
        - [Sections](#sections-)
        - [Div's](#divs-)
    - [Variables for global scope](#variables-for-global-scope-)
    - [Functions](#functions-)
        - [Show views](#show-views-)
        - [Start game](#start-game-)
        - [Show question & answers buttons](#show-question--answers-buttons-)
        - [Select answers & show messages](#select-answers--show-messages-)
        - [Reset answers](#reset-answers-)
        - [Show results](#show-results-)
        - [Quiz Q&A report for study](#quiz-qa-report-for-study-)
        - [Save results (JSON)](#save-results-json-)
        - [Clear results (JSON)](#clear-results-json-)
    - [Add event listeners for buttons](#add-event-listeners-for-buttons-)
***

## Brief intro 📅
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>*This project it's aimed to implement promises & SPA (Single Page Application) trough a Quizz Game.*

***

> __Note__
Project managers have introduced in the briefing document some suggestions to include extra features,which have been detailed in the table below.


## Milestones 📅
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>*Main milestones to reach within the project are;*

| HTML JS CSS     | Milestone |
| :-----------:   | :---------- |
|JS               | To import data from an external API       |
|(All)            | Create the Quizz code to convert the imported data in an usable Quiz game       |
|JS               | Create counters and score for players 
|JS               | Develope a SPA model that allows users to browse the three main pages under the Quiz game| 
|JS               | Save the results using JSON                 |
|JS               | Create game controls and game interaction through buttons  |

> __Warning__
Coding priorities have been re-checked almost dayly in order to speed up project development.


## Future upgrades ✅
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Things to do
>- [x] Improve score section to show funny answers based on scoring
>- [x] Add images to the score to improve impact 
>- [X] Add graphic score in main view
>- [X] Add title animation on header
>- [ ] Multiplayer option
>- [ ] On start,select difficulty level (radio buttons)
>- [ ] On start,select topic (collapsible list)
>- [ ] On start,select number of questions (radio buttons)
>- [ ] Layout color scheme change option (radio buttons)


## HTML notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>We've build up the HTML with bootstrap in mind.
It means that we've created a nested div structure that allows us to stilish each section to better define each single page view.
>With DOM access in mind to accomplish call-request functions.
>HTML structure has been kepts as simply as possible for quick and safe testing.

## JavaScript notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Script file has been linked inside the <body> section.
>We've strongly followed the best practices guidelines during the coding procedure.
>Code has been built under this order:
    - Variables declarations for:
        - Buttons
        - Sections
        - Div's 
        - Variables for global scope
    - Functions:
        - Show views
        - Start game
        - Show question & answers buttons
        - Select answers & show messages
        - Reset answers
        - Show results
        - Quiz Q&A report for study
        - Save results (JSON)
        - Clear results (JSON)
    - Add event listeners for buttons
> __Note__
To execute and run the chart,we've used **chart.js** , which needs to be inserted in css & js file.
## CSS notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>CSS file has been linked inside the <head> section.
>CSS as itself, only contains the main rule which manages the visibility of the views. Nothing else is brought from the styles.
>BOOTSTRAP bas been imported using the *CDN links method* which allowed us to easily edit the CSS code without caring about problems related to Bootstrap source files location paths in our respective computers.
>CDN Links has been placed on *<head>*and *<body>* sections of index.html page.
>We've also used Bootswatchtemplate to create the visual setup.
>Chart has been created using the script **chart.js**.

>There are three views within the site:
    -Home: where two cards are shown:
        - Access to Quiz 
        - Score statistics 
    -Quiz: where the game canvas is showed,and game is played.
    -Score: where you get the game score

> __Note__
To execute and run the chart,we've used **chart.js** , which needs to be inserted in css & js file.
> __Warning__
To show and teach the gamers the right results and allow them to learn and improve their skills, a POPUP window is used instead of a new view. Thats why the project manages three views instead of four.

## AXIOS notes 📋
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Script file has been linked inside the <body> section, precisely after the BOOTSTRAP link and before the main .js file.
>Once AXIOS has been linked, brings some sort of library which allows to manage PROMISES using the CRUD paradigm.


## Built with (TOOLSET) ⚙️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

*VISUAL STUDIO CODE*

>* [*VISUAL STUDIO CODE*](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - Code editor used (Version: 1.75.1)
>* [*BOOTSTRAP*] (https://getbootstrap.com) - CSS Framework (Version: 5.3.0) 
>* [*BOOTSWATCH*] (https://bootswatch.com) - CSS Templates for Bootstrap
>* [*Live Server*](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer) -Extension that updates the choosen browser to see changes in real time.
>* [*Live Share*](Version: 1.0.5832) -Extension that allow remote team coding under the same Visual Studio project. 

## Autors ✒️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

**kbastamow** - *Concept* | *Design* | *Coding*- [kbastamow](https://github.com/kbastamow)

**Joan Baldó** - *Concept* | *Design* | *Coding*- [joanbaldo](https://github.com/joanbaldo)

## License & Copyright 🔏 
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Please feel free tu use our code if it can help you! 
>Images shown has their own rights and have been used to reinforce positively the game score results view. All of them are aimed to inspire and bring enthusiasm to all those gamers who are braves enough to face our Quiz challenge.
>Regarding JS code,please check [LICENSE.md]for details.

## Acknowledgement 🫶
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

* Sofia Pinilla as code wiser and good vibe manufacturer.
* Federico Arévalo as spiritual coacher
* The crazy guys that are on our side creating amazing stuff while giving us some hand

***

# QUIZ INSIDES🎲
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Now let's talk about the game!

## Quiz description 📄
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Our Quiz game has the following features:
    - Vast range of topics mixed in a very attractive way
    - 10 random questions per round
    - Player gets real time feedback to know if the choosen answer is correct or incorrect.
    - Final score with funny output.
    - Option of getting the righ answer to learn the questions of the quiz round just played and improve.
    -Possibility or resetting the scoring history of the player.

## Game rules 📜
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>- Each round contains 10 questions.
>- Player can only choose one of the four answers showed for the question provided.
>- Player has to complete the quiz to be able to get the score.
>- Player has,as an option, the possibility of resetting,or not, its counter history.
>- Player has unlimited choices to play Quizz. As many rounds as deserves...


## Game views(pages) 🖲️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>There are three views within the site:
    -Home: where two cards are shown:
        - Access to Quiz 
        - Score statistics
    -Quiz: where the game canvas is showed,and game is played.
    -Score: where you get the game score


## Fun scoring 🎯
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We want that you enjoy each round!
>Thant's why we've prepared some surprises after each round when the game score is shown... go and try it!

## Play & learn! 🎓
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We strongly believe that game and knoledge must cohexist, so we've setup an extra function that allows ,through the click of a button, player to know all the questions and answers showed during the game round.


***

# CODING THE QUIZ ⌨️
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>Warm your fingers...it's coding time!

## DOM to JS 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>As the basic task to start coding page view management and building HTML contents, we have to import the basic HTML elements.

### Buttons 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We bring from DOM all the buttons.
```json
const nextBtn = document.getElementById("nextBtn");
const restartBtn = document.getElementById("restartBtn");
const clearBtn = document.getElementById("clearBtn")
const reviewBtn =document.getElementById("reviewBtn")
```

### Sections 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)

>We bring from DOM the main sections which contains the main views.
```json
const home = document.getElementById("home");
const quiz = document.getElementById("quiz");
const score = document.getElementById("score");
```

### Div's 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>We bring from DOM the secondary containers where we place the view elements.
```json
const question = document.getElementById("question");
const answers = document.getElementById("answers")
const msg = document.getElementById("msg")
const counterDiv = document.getElementById("counterDiv");
const sentenceDiv = document.getElementById("sentenceDiv");
const clearedMsg = document.getElementById("clearedMsg");
const questionsPopup = document.getElementById("questionsPopup");
const image = document.getElementById("image");
```

## Variables for global scope 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>The following step is to declare the global variables.
>Local variables have been declared inside their functions(local scope).
```json
let quizArray;
let qIndex = 0;
let correctAnswer = "";
let counter = 0;
```
## Functions 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>These are the functions coded in JS.

### Show views 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to show/hide the views elements.
>Original functions have been upgraded to reduce the code.
```json
function reveal(page) {
  home.classList.add("hide");
  quiz.classList.add("hide");
  score.classList.add("hide");
  page.classList.remove("hide");
}
```
### Start game 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to start the Quizz when pressing the button.
```json
async function startQuiz(e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  try {
    const res = await axios.get("https://opentdb.com/api.php?amount=10&type=multiple");
    quizArray = res.data.results;
    showQuestion(e) 
  } catch (error) {
      console.error(error) 
    }
}
```
### Show question & answers buttons 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to render the question and the answers array.
```json
function showQuestion(e) {
  console.log(counter);
  e.preventDefault();
  reveal(quiz);
  resetState();
  nextBtn.classList.remove("hide");
  nextBtn.setAttribute("disabled", "true");
  question.innerHTML = quizArray[qIndex].question;
  correctAnswer = quizArray[qIndex].correct_answer;
  const options = [...quizArray[qIndex].incorrect_answers, correctAnswer].sort();
    options.forEach((option) => {
    const button = document.createElement("button");
    button.setAttribute("class","btn btn-outline-warning border-2 rounded-0 text-dark shadow");
    button.innerHTML = option;
    if (option == correctAnswer) {
    button.classList.add("correct");
    }
    button.addEventListener("click", selectAnswer);
    answers.appendChild(button);
  });
  qIndex += 1;
}
```
### Select answers & show messages 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to render answer status: correct or incorrect.
```json
function selectAnswer(e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  nextBtn.removeAttribute("disabled");
  document.querySelectorAll("#answers button").forEach((button => button.removeEventListener("click", selectAnswer))); 
  const selectedStyle = this.getAttribute("class").replace("btn-outline-warning", "btn-warning");
  this.setAttribute("class", selectedStyle);
  if(this.classList.contains("correct")) {
   let msg = document.createElement("div");
   msg.innerHTML = `<p class="alert alert-success border-0 fw-bold">CORRECT</p>` //NEW
   answers.appendChild(msg);
     counter +=1 ;
  } else {
   let msg = document.createElement("div");
   msg.innerHTML = `<p class="alert alert-danger border-0 fw-bold"><span class="fw-bold">INCORRECT.</span> Correct answer: ${correctAnswer}</p>` //NEW
   answers.appendChild(msg);
  }

  if (quizArray.length == qIndex)  {    
   nextBtn.classList.add("hide");
   const resultBtn = document.createElement("button");
   resultBtn.setAttribute("class", "btn btn-dark shadow my-2 px-5")
   resultBtn.innerHTML = "See your score";
   resultBtn.addEventListener("click", results);
   answers.appendChild(resultBtn); 
 } 
}
```
### Reset answers 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to reset the questions canvas,cleaning it.
```json
function resetState() {
  while (answers.firstChild) {
    answers.removeChild(answers.firstChild);
  }
}
```
### Show results 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function aimed to render the score and add a funny sentence and an image.
```json
function results(e) {
  e.preventDefault();
  saveScore();  //Save in local storage
  reveal(score);
  counterDiv.innerHTML = `${counter} Points`;
  if (counter <= 3) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4b/McDonald%27s_logo.svg/220px-McDonald%27s_logo.svg.png")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `You better look for a job at McDonalds!`;
  } else if (counter > 3 && counter <= 5) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://media.istockphoto.com/id/1186712099/photo/walking-into-the-abyss-while-using-smartphone.jpg?s=170667a&w=0&k=20&c=-I2on4piBRgMXFPLHRxZKv5TLUNKT3_lyxKsYaZR9kg=")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `You're on the path to success!`;
  } else if (counter > 5 && counter <= 7) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://imageio.forbes.com/specials-images/imageserve/5bb22ae84bbe6f67d2e82e05/0x0.jpg?format=jpg&crop=1012,1013,x627,y129,safe&height=416&width=416&fit=bounds")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `You're on your way to becoming the next Bezos`;
  } else if (counter > 7 && counter <= 9) {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://jingdaily.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Screen-Shot-2013-10-09-at-2.54.19-AM.jpg")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `Your insane points will bring you your dreamed yacht, supercar & private resort in Ibiza`;
  } else {
    image.setAttribute("src", "https://t3.ftcdn.net/jpg/05/64/37/30/360_F_564373014_pREjFn0SL1hd1TwRAcFfiQqNvD2RmhnT.jpg")
    sentenceDiv.innerHTML = `Will your points let you into Valhalla? Yes!`
  }
}
```
### Quiz Q&A report for study 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that shows a popup containing the 10 question with the 10 correct answers.
```json
function studyQs() {
  quizArray.forEach(item => {
    const question = document.createElement("div");
    questionsPopup.appendChild(question);
    question.innerHTML += `<p class="fw-bold mb-0">${item.question}</p>
                           <p>${item.correct_answer}</p>`
  })
}
```
### Save results (JSON) 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that sends score to Local Scorage.
```json
function saveScore() {
  const scoreArray = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem("scores")) || [];
  scoreArray.push(counter);
  localStorage.setItem("scores", JSON.stringify(scoreArray));
  average.innerHTML = `You've played ${scoreArray.length} time(s). Your average is:  ${Number(scoreArray.reduce((acc, val) => (acc + val)) / scoreArray.length).toFixed(0)}/10`;
}
```
### Clear results (JSON) 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that cleans the Local Storage.
```json
function clearStorage() {
  if (clearBtn.classList.contains("clickedOnce")){         
    localStorage.clear();
    clearBtn.classList.remove("clickedOnce");
    clearBtn.innerHTML = "Clear game history"
    clearedMsg.innerHTML = `<p class="text-danger fw-bold">Evidence destroyed</p>`
    setTimeout(()=> clearedMsg.innerHTML = "", 4000);    
  } else {        
    clearBtn.classList.add("clickedOnce");  //Adds a class to button to show it's been clicked once to get confirmation from user
    clearBtn.innerHTML = "ARE YOU SURE?";
  }
}
```
## Add event listeners for buttons 🖳
[⬆️](#quiz-game-project-)
>Function that shows which function trigger each button.
```json
nextBtn.addEventListener("click", showQuestion);
restartBtn.addEventListener("click", restartQuiz);
quizBtn.addEventListener("click", startQuiz);   
clearBtn.addEventListener("click", clearStorage); 
reviewBtn.addEventListener("click", studyQs);
```
